In this video, we will promisify
the read file and write file functions.
Which means that we will make them so
that they return promises
instead of us passing a callback functions into them.
So if you want, it's basically a read file function
that returns a promise
and that only receives a file name, no callback.
So let's do exactly that.
So, we're gonna create a read file pro function.
So pro for promise because again
it returns a promise.
And then all we do is to pass in the file name
and as we were saying, return a promise.
So, return new promise.
So we use the promise constructor here
which was introduced into the language with ES6.
So before ES6 like ES5, ES4
and all the previous versions,
there was no support for promises in JavaScript.
But they changed that in ES6
and made the language a lot better in that regard.
So regarding asynchronous JavaScript.
Now this promise constructor here
takes in a so called executor function,
which will get called immediately when promise is created.
And this function will take in two arguments
so resolve and reject.
So resolve and reject,
but for now don't worry for them,
we're gonna be talking about them in a minute.
For now let's just focus on this executor function itself
because this is where we actually do
all this asynchronous work.
In this case the read file work.
So this is where we're gonna call fs.readfile
with the file name that was passed in
and then the usual callback function, okay.
So the error and data,
so just like before.
So keep in mind that we're not actually
changing the read file function
we're simply creating a new function
which behind the scenes of course still runs
the built in read file function
but then returns a promise
so that we can use the promise
instead of the callback function.
Okay.
So we have that read file function here
which will do its work
and when it's ready will come back with the data.
And now this is where the resolve
and the reject functions come into play.
Because both these arguments that are available
in the executor function they are both functions.
Now calling the resolve function
will basically mark the promise as successful
so as fulfilled,
and return the successful value from the promise.
So let's actually do that.
So we call resolve with data.
So whatever variable that we pass into the resolve function
is what will be later available
as the argument in the then method, all right?
So this data here will be the value
that this promise returns to us, okay.
That probably sounds a bit confusing, right?
So again, whatever we pass into this function here,
into the resolve function,
is the result of the promise
that will be available in the then handler.
Now on the other hand,
we can also mark the promise as rejected
in case there was an error, okay.
And we do that by calling,
as you can probably guess,
the reject function.
So, if there was an error
and this is similar to what we did before.
So if there was an error here,
then call the reject function.
And whatever we pass into this one
will be the error that is later available
in the catch method.
So, in this one here.
Okay?
So let's just pass a string in here,
I could not find that file,
some emoji here maybe to make it pop a bit more
in our console.logs, all right?
And, okay.
That is actually already it.
So, let's review this here again.
So we created a new file,
in there we will pass a file name.
So this argument.
And all we do here is to return this promise.
This promise takes in one executor function,
so this one here,
which is where we do our asynchronous work.
In that case here of course that is our
fs.readfile.
Then if we get our data in a successful way
we call the resolve function
with the resolve value.
And if there is an error
we call the reject function, okay?
And so let's now actually use this in practice.
Read file pro,
we pass in our file name.
So that's this one of course
and that's it.
So this will now return a promise.
And so just like before
we can then use our then method on that.
Okay and so this data argument here
will be exactly what we returned from the promise
in case it was successful.
So, with this resolve.
So right now our dog file here
contains labrador
and so this data here will be labrador.
And so that is then later available
in our then handler here.
But of course it doesn't need to have the same name,
I could also call it like result or something
it doesn't matter, all right?
Okay, so let's now take all of this
and actually put it here.
Okay.
Get rid of all of this, save it
and that will run it.
Now we get that error down here
so data's not defined.
That's because I changed it here to a result.
So let's actually go back and change it to data
because here we have data
and here we have data
and so this way I don't have to go ahead
and change all of these variable names.
Give it another save
and here we go.
So it worked, you see?
We actually got the breed,
which is still labrador
and this time from our promise, okay.
So, this really worked.
So our read file pro function
now returns a promise
and that data here is then available on our then handler.
Great, so it's already working
and we can make it a lot better
and we're gonna do that
but for now I also want to promisify
this write file function here.
So basically, do the same as we did
with the read file function.
Now, if you're already know a bit about no js,
maybe you're thinking that there is actually a function node
that will automatically promisify functions for us.
But of course I wanted to show you here
how promises actually work
and how we build them
and so that's why I'm doing all of this here, okay.
So I really want you to learn about promises,
not just how we consume them
but also how to build them.
And so that's why I'm doing it this way.
So, write file and as a promise.
And this one actually doesn't only need the file name
but also the data that should be written to that file.
But then the logic in here is quite similar.
So again, we return a new promise,
in there we have our executor function
which takes resolve and reject as the argument.
And these are kind of standard names
So resolve and reject,
you could call them whatever you really wanted
but this is kind of the standard, okay.
So fs,
write file,
we pass in the file,
the data and then the callback function.
And now something very similar to before,
so if there was an error,
then call the reject function
and pass in some message there.
Could not write the file,
again with this emoji here to make it stand out a bit more
and in case everything worked fine,
well then just resolve.
Now we don't have any data actually to pass in here right?
So we're just gonna pass in some random string
something just like saying success, okay.
So a promise doesn't always
have to return a meaningful value.
In this case all we're really trying to do here
is to write a file
which doesn't really return a meaningful value.
So we're now ready to use this promisified function
but before we do that,
let's actually implement the chaining
that I was talking to you about before.
So right now,
we still in fact have callbacks inside of callbacks
inside of callbacks, right?
So we have this then,
which has this callback.
And then in there there is another then handler
which has yet another callback in it.
So that doesn't really change anything, does it?
Instead we want to chain these then handlers here.
And the secret to doing that
is to make each handler return a new promise.
So how are we gonna do that?
Well, remember that this function here returns a promise.
And so all we have to do is to return
that promise from this first then handler.
Let me show that to you.
So we say return superagent.get
and then the string and that is now a promise, okay.
And then we actually close this callback function here
and chain this then method right onto it.
Give it a save, now we have some error here
and that is on line 40.
Let's get rid of this here
and okay.
It changed the formatting here for us again
that was prettier
and then we actually already have it working down here.
So why does this work again?
Well, of course this function
that we created in the beginning returns a promise.
So on that we can use the then method.
We then make this callback function that's in it
again return a promise.
And like that we can then chain
the next then handler on that.
So this result variable here
will then be the resolved value of this promise
that returned from the previous handler, okay?
Makes sense?
Now to take it one step further
we will go ahead
and use our write file pro function here now as well.
And since we want to keep chaining the then methods
we will again return that actually.
So return, write file pro
pass in the file name, which is this one,
the data...
And that's actually it.
Okay, so we don't need any of this here anymore,
let's just comment it up for now.
Get rid of this space here
and then on there we can chain the next then handler.
So then, and remember that in here
we didn't really have any meaningful resolved value.
So, we don't want any argument
to this callback function here
all we want to do is to log this string, right?
So now we can actually really get rid of this
and okay.
So, down here we see now
that it's actually already working.
And again the trick for being able
to chain all of these then methods here
is to return a promise before calling each of them.
So this one here obviously returns a promise here
so then we can chain the then method on it.
Then this piece of code here
will return a promise
and so we can use then on it.
Then this piece of code will return a promise
and so we can use then on it again, okay?
So that is the secret to it.
Give it a save again
and so down here we see that the breed is still labrador.
We see that this here is the link,
let's go here and confirm
that this is here indeed the same as this.
And so it did successfully write the string to the text file
using our promisified write file function, okay.
And then in the end we have this error handler.
And the beauty here is that for all of these chains
then handlers in the end,
we simply need one single catch handler.
So one function handling the errors
coming from either one of the three promises, okay.
Let's actually only log the error to the console
and let's try to, for example,
change this file here.
Actually not the file,
but I'm gonna change the file name here,
save it and now we see I could not find that file.
So where does that come from?
It comes right up here
from calling the reject function, okay?
So we have an error here because we couldn't find the file
and so we called the reject function.
And that reject function will then mark this promise here
so remember this is a promise.
It will mark it as rejected.
And therefore, the catch function is called.
And so then we log that error to the console.
And the result of that is what you can see down here.
Okay, let's put it back
now it works.
Now let's go into the file,
create a dog that doesn't exist
and now, oh, here we have this big weird error
and that's because we're simply logging the entire error
and not the error message as we were doing before
but doesn't matter.
Now give it a save here now,
put it back
and all right.
So now it's all working
and we got rid of that triangular shape
that we had in our code
and now have a so called flat structure of chain promises.
So again this is way easier to manage
and I hope you can start to appreciate that
and it's also more logical to think
and to reason about the code like this.
Now, in the next lecture
we will actually take it one step further even
and make this even more readable
and easier to use.
So stay tuned for that.